# tictactoe
 
This project aims to determine the best possible move for the player in a given state of the tic-tac-toe board. A* will be used as a traditional AI algorithm, and the random forest algorithm will be used to form the machine learning model. This report aims to evaluate the performances of A* and a machine learning model in finding the shortest path and compare their implementations and results.


A* can find a solution given a state and by testing the algorithm we can say that the results were almost always optimal. However, the ML model struggles to find an optimal solution and sometimes can’t find a valid solution. The accuracy of the model being low or the dataset not being big and comprehensive enough to make a generalization can cause the model to not produce good solutions. A* algorithm is adaptable to any game state and does not rely on any historical data. The model heavily relies on the historical data. However, its performance can be improved by enlarging the dataset, possibly adding more features or having better quality data entries. The complexity of A* constantly grows as the search space expands, so we can say that it is slower at generating a solution and not preferable for possible larger boards and, therefore larger search spaces. After training, the ML model can make predictions and produce a solution almost immediately.  

The A* algorithm is effective for small-scale games like Tic-Tac-Toe and offers high accuracy and adaptability without needing any prior data. It is especially suitable for scenarios where computational resources are not a constraint, for example, if we don’t mind it taking long to find a solution as long as it does find one. On the other hand, the machine learning model is highly preferable in scenarios requiring real-time predictions and makes use of being trained on historical data. However, its performance strongly depends on the quality of its training dataset and may not produce good results in edge cases or situations that it has never seen.

For the Tic-Tac-Toe game, A* emerges as the best choice for accuracy and reliability, while the ML model offers a nice alternative for applications where speed is important, and training data is helpful. In larger or more complex games with possibly larger search spaces, combining both approaches (such as using ML to guide A*) might result in better decisions. Furthermore, using deep learning features and implementing its strategies for solving tic-tac-toe might be a good problem to investigate.
